DR. MED 
Personalized Medical Assistant Application

Abstract
A personal medical assistant application is a necessity of the hour. The uprising of a pandemic forced people to stay in their homes and seeking healthcare from professionals became a difficult and risky process. Doctors also faced difficulties in providing their services to people. Even in a ‘world without the pandemic’, online consultation and other medical services make human life easier. 
In this application, we are providing multiple features in a user-friendly manner. There are provisions suitable for people of every age group and are designed to use authorized databases only. 


Introduction
The app we designed is a freemium model with wider features than most of the other medical apps. The application aims to create a platform to serve every health-related need of a person. As far as the completed design, we have addressed the common issues to an extent by providing enough space for future developments. 


Project Objectives and Outcomes 
The project addresses various problems and proposes solutions for the same that can be beneficial for every user. 

Problems Addressed                                                                                                                                                           
1. The difficulty of senior citizens or physically ill people in consulting in person with doctors                                                   
2. The pandemic situation that made hospital visits riskier than ever                                                                                        
3. Wrong information regarding medicines and symptom detection by various platforms                                                           
4. The difficulty for timely medicine intake by patients with complete or partial memory loss                                                    
5. Need to store emergency medical records in a safe and easily accessible environment                                                           
6. Finding hospitals in an unfamiliar place                                                                                                                             
7. Finding a good hospital                                                                                                                                                   
8. Finding doctors suitable for particular situations      


Solutions provided
1. Features to book doctor’s appointments. Also enables online interaction with doctors including call and message through the app
2. Complete online consultation with doctors through the app
3. Symptom search and results provided by authorized professionals
4. Reminder systems to ensure timely intake of medicines, exercises, hydration, sanitizing, and updating weight log
5. Provisions to store and access essential medical records
6. Option to search for hospitals with location
7. Hospitals detailed with star rating systems
8. Categorizing doctors with their area and year of expertise

                                                                                                         
Methodology
The product is now implemented as a complete design created using the Figma software. The front-end is created using the Flutter software. The designed templates are imported into flutter and the functionalities are generated using flutter widgets. 

App Features

The in-app features of Dr.MED include:
* Medical card generator for storing necessary medical records
* BMI Calculator
* Reminders for health care and appointments
* Finding hospitals in an area and comparing them by star rating
* Finding doctors with a particular specialization
* Doctor description with years of experience
* Finding doctors in any area
* Online consultation
* Online appointment booking
* Connecting with health apps and devices
* Symptom search with authorized prescription


Application
The application of the product comes under various situations described in the problems section. The target users will be people with chronic illness or essential medical history. Any health-conscious person can find the product useful. As it combines the features of many existing platforms, people can find everything related to medical care under one single roof. 


Future Scope and Improvement
Future improvements that can be implemented to the product include:
* Availing sponsorship from external organizations
* Make the product available in regional languages
* Collaborating with medical companies to enable medicine purchase 
* Connecting with blood banks to provide blood donation services


Project Directory


├───android
│   ├───app
│   │   └───src
│   │       ├───debug
│   │       ├───main
│   │       │   ├───kotlin
│   │       │   │   └───com
│   │       │   │       └───example
│   │       │   │           └───brainnerds 
│   │       │   └───res
│   │       │       ├───drawable
│   │       │       ├───mipmap-hdpi
│   │       │       ├───mipmap-mdpi
│   │       │       ├───mipmap-xhdpi
│   │       │       ├───mipmap-xxhdpi
│   │       │       ├───mipmap-xxxhdpi
│   │       │       └───values
│   │       └───profile
│   └───gradle
│       └───wrapper
├───assets         \\includes images and fonts used in the application
│   ├───fonts     \\Source Sans Pro
│   └───images  \\Icons used in the home page, background image for splash page and sign in page
├───ios
│   ├───Flutter
│   ├───Runner
│   │   ├───Assets.xcassets
│   │   │   ├───AppIcon.appiconset
│   │   │   └───LaunchImage.imageset
│   │   └───Base.lproj
│   ├───Runner.xcodeproj
│   │   ├───project.xcworkspace
│   │   │   └───xcshareddata
│   │   └───xcshareddata
│   │       └───xcschemes
│   └───Runner.xcworkspace
│       └───xcshareddata
├───lib                 \\contains all Dart classes including main.dart (entry point of the app) 
│   └───Screens    \\contains Dart classes of the splash, sign up, sign in, home, reminder, message, menu
└───test
The root of the project has pubspec.yaml. This file contains the app's dependencies that include both external libraries/modules and assets like images and config files. 


Hosting the app in localhost
The application is converted into an apk file and can be downloaded to view the product on a local device. 

Find the link to download the apk file HERE: https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/106pgylwj5BTgM7XGmCepzyg7URiKSIAX

Future hosting and localization will be done by providing the app in the play store or other platforms. 


Conclusion
This project aims to create an authorized platform suitable for every health needs of the people. The design serves this aim to an extend and it has a lot of provisions for further improvement. For the complete functional implementation of this app, we need authorization by organizations like IMA, access to medical databases, and support from doctors of different hospitals across the world. There is a lot of background work to be done before launching such a service and we wish to continue working on the same.
